= simplificator-mongomapper-tree

== What

Representing a tree structure in mongodb using mongomapper.
Highly experimental...just plaing around with mongodb and mongmapper.

So is it smart to store a tree in a document base database in a relational fashion?
Not sure.
Sometimes embedded documents wont work (especialy when quering and you do not know at what depth to query).



Changing the parent of a node is not supported, when creating a child node you have to specify the parent.

== How
  class TreeNode
    include MongoMapper::Document
    include MongoMapper::Tree

    key :name, String

    key :path, String
    key :depth, Integer

    key :parent_id, Mongo::ObjectID
    belongs_to :parent, :class_name => 'TreeNode'

    many :children, :class_name => 'TreeNode', :foreign_key => :parent_id
  end

  node = TreeNode.create(:name => 'root')
  child = TreeNode.create(:name => 'child', :parent => node)

  # methods provided
  node.depth
  node.ancestors
  node.self_and_ancestors
  node.descendants
  node.self_and_descendants

  node.root
  node.ancestor_of?(child)
  node.descendant_of?(child)





== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 pascalbetz. See LICENSE for details.
